hello I'm Morris Cohan ski wilderness
living skills the survival instructor
the topic I'm going to cover here is
books on bears the situation from my
point of view I spent all my life in
bear country is that if you are going to
encounter any kind of a problem with an
animal in particular we have bears
Cougars perhaps Wolverines and there are
a number of fearsome animals that we
might have to contend with on a daily
basis in a wilderness wolves well my
insight into the subject is that the
more you know about the natural history
of an animal the more you know how to
conduct yourself when it's around that
is one option is to arm yourself and if
the animal gets too troublesome then you
shoot it well I spent all my life 45
plus years wandering around in bear
country and I have never really felt
either occasionally I might have felt a
little threatened but I felt that my
knowledge about bears and their their
lifestyles and so on would hold me
through and it has so far well we have a
selection of books that have come out
safe travel in bear country by Gary
Brown the situation here is that these
smaller books when you read them all
they're not going to be very repetitive
for my experience bears by Kevin Kevin
Van Tegan a local fellow that lives not
far from here Jasper hour-and-a-half
Drive backcountry bare basics by Dave
Smith the most common is the black bear
but the most fearsome is the Grizzlies
so you tend to have people focus a
little bit on on Grizzlies Alaska bear
tape the trails anything with the title
Alaska I tend to like it because I find
that it applies to my back door as well
Larry can yet he's I figured it was a a
well done book on the general
experiences of someone who's lived in
that environment for a long time summer
of the grisly that is dealing with a
situation where there seemed to be an
unusually great amount of problems that
particular time that the book came out
hiking in bear country Keith Scott II
nicely laid out and really gets to the
point of understanding bears bear
counter and counter Survival Guide you
can see that compared to a human hand
the grizzly file with a powerful claws
for digging for roots and so on is quite
a large creature it's almost like a
horse bearing down on you an animal that
big that's a carnivore at any rate
reading seven well-chosen books on how
to conduct yourself in bear country will
consolidate your knowledge to the point
where you will find that there will be a
current of similar notion that applies
to all and then each and every
individual has picked up in their own
way the way they they've dealt with
bears in their own livelihood in their
own experience and we all benefit from
that accumulated experience by my
reading more than just one author